[MUSIC PLAYING]

- Business intelligence is the process of deriving insights from data.
As data scientists, we use analytical techniques to derive insight.
Many sources divide analytics into four types;
descriptive, diagnostic, predictive, and prescriptive.
As the arrows indicate, there is an order
to these types of business intelligence.
The order implies that those on the left must
be completed before those to the right can be accomplished.
The order also relates the time point to which an analysis refers.
The descriptive and diagnostic analyses refer
to events that occurred in the past.
The predictive and prescriptive analyses refer to events
that will occur in the future.
The four types of analytics can also be described by the kinds of questions
that they address.
The questions in order are; what happened, why did it happen,
what will happen, and what should we do?
How does something happen is not one of the questions.
How implies causation, and much of data science
avoids causation and the concept of a data model.
Instead, a model can be used for predictions,
but the model is based on correlation and not causation.
Descriptive analytics, are traditional business intelligence.
Descriptive analytics includes graphing dashboards, KPIs,
and summary statistics.
Diagnostic analytics is traditional data mining
by slicing and dicing of data cubes, drill down,
and correlation among variables.
Data scientists focus on predictive models
that allow us to answer questions like, what
is the probability that something will happen,
or how much will something cost?
These techniques require machine learning algorithms.
Most who are interested in learning data science want to learn these skills.
Prescriptive analytics uses recommender engines, model coefficients,
and 'what if' analyses, like partial dependency functions, to ask,
what action should be taken given a prediction.
More sophisticated models can be trained to classify
what action has the desired outcome.
This is the data science of the future.

[MUSIC PLAYING]
