[MUSIC PLAYING]

Some columns to not have numeric data.
For instance, a column called vehicle might
have names of vehicles like car, truck, auto, sedan, and bike.
The vehicles do not have an inherent order.
Columns like these are called categorical or nominal columns,
as opposed to numeric columns.
The different values in a categorical column are called categories.
We will prepare and explore the categorical columns
in a Pandas DataFrame.
The first preparation step consists of decoding.
The second step is imputation.
We know that we will need the Pandas package.

We download the data and assign the data as a data frame
to an object called Mamm.
Mamm is short for mammographic masses.
Each row describes a patient and her breast tumor;
each column describes an attribute of the patient or her tumor.
We can determine from the data dictionary
that the data types of the Shape and Margin columns should be categorical.

Using the dtypes attribute, we see that these columns are indeed categorical.

But when we view the first rows using the head method,
we see that these columns look numeric.

The numbers in these columns are codes for categories.
These numbers may confuse some algorithms.
We may believe that these codes are numbers
even though they are cast as strings.
It is best practice to decode these categories.
From the data dictionary, we can find out
which code belongs to which category.
From the data dictionary, we see that the codes for Shape are 1, 2, 3, and 4.
We should check our data to see if there are any additional codes that we
haven't decoded.

We can check the categories of Shape by using the unique method on Shape.
Indeed, there is another code, namely question mark.
Each question mark in Shape is a placeholder for a missing value.
We will need to impute those letters.
Decoding is a replacement.
We replace each of the current values with an appropriate category.
For instance, in the column named Shape, we would want to replace 1 with round.

To that end, we specify the locations of 1 in a Boolean.

On the left-hand side of the assignment, we use the Boolean to index
the rows of the data frame that contain a 1.

On the right-hand side of the assignment,
we use the new name of the category, which is round.
We repeat this process for every code in the Shape column.

Now that we've decoded Shape, we need to focus our attention
on the missing value.
A common way to impute values in a categorical column
is to use the most common category.
We can get a count of each category using the value_counts method.

We see that the most common shape is irregular.

To replace the missing values, we apply the replacement pattern.

Next, we apply the decoding process to the Margin column.
We determine the imputation value for missing values
and we find that circumscribed is the most common category.

We impute the missing values in Margin.

Finally, we can check the distribution of categories in Shape and Margin.

To continue the data preparation of categorical columns in the data frame,
we need to consider if we should simplify the categories
and change these columns into numeric columns.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
