[MUSIC PLAYING]

What is data science?
The name data science was coined by two self-proclaimed data scientists,
but at the time in 2008, these data scientists,
DJ Patel and Jeff Hammerbacher, failed to provide
a definition of data science.
Some say that data science is the art of gaining insights from data.
But that is the same definition as for business intelligence.
It seems that data science is business intelligence.
Yet there are clear distinctions between data scientists and typical BI
developers.
One difference between data scientists and typical BI developers
is that data transformations and analysis in data science
require more mathematical and statistical processing.
Yet we know that using math in deriving insights is an age-old process.
To make my point, I can quote Sun Tzu, who wrote The Art of War.
He wrote it 2,500 years ago.
And he wrote, "First, measure.
Second, estimate quantity.
Third, calculate.
Fourth, balance chances.
Fifth, succeed."
Sun Tzu's steps are easily mapped to modern-day equivalents
in business intelligence and data science.
So far I've only explained the context in which data science is poorly defined
and a millennium-old practice.
You might conclude that data science is just
the age-old practice of BI development with an emphasis
on quantitative reasoning.
On the other hand, it seems that we know data science when we see it.
And data science is more than just BI.
Also, there seems to be something new about data science.
Otherwise, why would the Harvard Business Review
proclaim that data scientist is the sexiest job of the 21st century,
and why would Glassdoor.com list data scientists as the best
job in America two years in a row?
Given the situation, we pose two questions.
The first question is, what is data science?
The second question is, why is data science new?
My answer to the first question is that data science is the generalization
of the scientific method.
Given that the scientific method has been around for millennia
and has been formalized for nearly a century,
how can its generalization be new?
The generalization as a concept is not new,
but the widespread practice of the scientific method outside
of the traditional sciences is new.
Data science is a new discipline because of two new developments
that enable the generalization of the scientific method.
The first development is the abundance of data outside
of traditional sciences.
The second development is a tool set that
allows us to investigate these data.
For a deeper answer to the question of, what is data science?
We can decompose the term data science into its two component words, namely,
data and science.
And we ask, two more questions, namely, what is the scientific method?
And what is the nature of data?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
