[MUSIC PLAYING]

Often when data are missing, a placeholder value is entered.
The best placeholder value is null.
In Python, the null is represented by an object called none or nan.
Often the person who enters the data will use a ridiculous value
to indicate that the value is actually unknown.
For instance, a value of minus one, or 99 for the age of a preschooler
is obviously incorrect.
One reason for entering such ridiculous values
is that the data entry system may have required a non-null numeric entry, even
if the value was unknown.
In this sense, missing values can be like erroneous input.
Just like erroneous input, the placeholder values
need to be removed or replaced prior to analysis.
When a data scientist speaks of a problem with missing values,
the data scientist usually means that there
is a problem in removing or replacing placeholder values.
Missing numeric values are often represented by a non numeric text.
Typical examples of missing values are an empty or blank text.
An empty text is a text with zero characters.
And a blank is the space character.
Missing values are also often represented by the texts null, nan,
and the question mark.
The texts null, nan, and none should not be
confused with the actual values, null, none, and nan.
These texts are like text in a numeric array.
They are inappropriate for a numeric analysis.
Missing data is a common problem.
Data are often missing because somebody forgot to enter the data.
In other cases, data may be missing because the data never existed.
An example might be a class that has four exams over the semester.
Some of the students may have missed one or more exams.
We note each missing exam by entering a null for the grade.
When calculating the student's grade, we need to decide what to do.
After we determine which exams are missing,
we decide how we process the missing data.
We could remove the null grade and calculate the average
from the other three exams.
We could replace the null grade with a zero and then calculate the average.
We could replace the null grade with a class average for that exam.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
