[MUSIC PLAYING]

In the next example, we consider the case
where we want to replace an outlier instead of removing the outlier.
Often, the upcoming analysis requires that we may not reduce
the number of values in an array.
The consequence is that we must find a replacement value for the outlier.
Since we do not know the actual value our replacement value will be a guess.
This process is called imputation.
One of the simplest and most common forms of imputation
is mean imputation, where the arithmetic mean of the data set
is used as the replacement value for every outlier.
Let's consider a simple data set that consists of 10 values.

Each value represents the age of a preschooler in day care.
An array is created on the right-hand side of the assignment using
the numpy array function.
The array is assigned to x.
This array is very small, which allows us
to easily see that the fourth value is 99, and that it is an outlier.
The simplicity of this example allows us to see the steps of the process
that we will use to remove outliers.
We calculate the high and low limits for values that are not outliers.
The limits are two standard deviations from the mean.
We want to find the outlier values.
To that end, we create a Boolean array called "flag bad"
through an assignment.

Flag bad" will have true for every outlier in the data set x and a false
for the values within the limits.
The right-hand side of the assignment is a Boolean statement
where the values in x are less than the low limit
or higher than the high limit.
The element-wise operator for or is the single vertical bar.
For this simple example, you can review the values in the Boolean array.

Before, this Boolean array is the only item that has the value true.
We want an assignment that will replace the values in the data set
x for which the Boolean array is true.
The left-hand side of the assignment is the data
set x indexed by the Boolean array called "flag bad."
This expression on the left-hand side of the assignment
refers to all the outliers in the data set x.
The right-hand side of the assignment is the mean of the data set x.
The data set x has changed and for this exercise,
we should examine its contents.
The data set x still has 10 values because the outlier was replaced
and not removed.
The outlier was the fourth value of the data set.
The outlier was replaced by the mean of the data set.
The mean of the data set is 12.

The data set should represent ages of preschoolers.
12 is not a good guess for the age of a preschooler.
The problem is that the outlier had a large influence on the mean.
Instead of an imputation based on the whole data set that includes outliers,
we can base our imputation only on the values that are not outliers.
We need to get the Boolean array that indicates the values that
are within the specified limits.
In a previous exercise, we calculated this Boolean array
and assigned it to "flag good.
We should note that "flag bad" is the complement of "flag good.
If we calculate one, then we can get the other by using the complement operator.
If we do not have "flag good anymore from the previous example,
we can easily get it now.

In this second attempt to impute and replace,
we use an assignment that is similar to the previous replacement.
The left-hand side of the assignment is the data
set x indexed by the Boolean array called "flag bad."
The expression on the left-hand side of the assignment
refers to all the outliers in the data set x.

The expression on the right-hand side of the assignment
is indexed by the Boolean array.

The right-hand side of the assignment is the mean
of the values in data set x that are not outliers.

When we check the values in the data set x,
we see that the assignment replaces the item index that
was marked as an outlier with a value of approximately 2.3, which is reasonable.
This method is not as sensitive to outliers.
Another method uses a median instead of an arithmetic mean.
A median is less sensitive to outliers too.

We can redo the previous example, but our imputation value
is not the mean of the values in data set x that are not outliers.
Instead, our imputation value is the median of the whole data set x.

When we check the values of the data set,
we see that the imputed value is 2.5.
2.5 it's reasonable.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
