[MUSIC PLAYING]

ZACHARIAS VOULGARIS: Apart from the statistical fallacies measured here,
there are several other ones, too.
However, describing them all would make this a very long class.
Suffice to say that they have to do with how we use stats
and how we interpret the results.
of a statistical process, just like the fallacies we mentioned earlier.
One thing to remember, though, is that fallacies
are serious methodological issues that we
need to be careful about in every data science project.
They may be subtle and may even go unnoticed for a while.
But they can easily jeopardize a data science
project, and the model's reliability.
However, having a solid understanding of the mindset behind statistical analysis
is a good deterrent of various statistical fallacies,
not just the ones we examined in this class.
One thing we can do to help keep these fallacies at bay
is state your assumptions as well as the [? statistical ?] methods' assumptions.
Assumptions are often essentially in data science projects.
However, they don't always get the attention they deserve.
A wrong assumption can be the cause of a failed model.
So whenever making assumptions about the data that
directly influence your decisions about the models you use,
it's good to document it.
Most statistical methods involve a number of assumptions, too.
That's why it is particularly easy to forget at least some of them.
Yet whether you forget them or not, assumptions still
influence their results noticeably in many cases.
The [INAUDIBLE] you use to define an outlier, for example,
might result in regarding as outliers data
points that are actually quite normal.
Also, other people may not be aware of the underlying assumptions of a data
analytics process.
This can create additional confusion, since if they take over that project
one day, they may not be able to manage it properly and deal
with any bugs that may arise when they try to run it on a new date.
That's another reason why stating your assumptions,
particularly in some easily accessible way, can add a lot of value
to your work.
Finally adhering to the assumptions is bound
to lead to better interpretation of the results, while at the same time,
help avoid any statistical fallacies.
So it's best to not be presumptuous about assumptions
and to take them seriously.
They can be the difference between a smooth project
and one ridden with statistical fallacies and other issues.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
